good morning you wake up and switch on
the tv
it's yakking in the background while you
go on with your morning routine
a news program's on and you hear the
presenter talking about spiders
city authorities and invasion while you
burn your toast
huh it sounds too sci-fi and you don't
pay
too much attention they're probably
talking about a new action movie
an hour later you get into your car and
switch on the radio
the reception is surprisingly weak and
you can only catch separate words
spiders caution unprecedented
be careful at home until oh you start to
feel nervous
what danger are they warning about
you're driving through your neighborhood
heading for the downtown but just as
you're about to turn onto the main road
your foot hits the brakes while your
mind goes blank
the creature is huge eight thick hairy
legs
eight huge spherical eyes arranged in
two rows
several of them as big as footballs well
there's no denying it
the car-sized monster is a giant spider
unfortunately this discovery doesn't
make your brain spring back
into action you're still rooted to the
spot watching the creature get closer
and closer you aren't particularly
afraid of spiders
even used to have one as a child that's
why you know a lot about them
but dang it wasn't this big
as if under a spell you're staring at
the spider's body
it's divided into two parts joined by a
slim waist
you notice silk spinning organs on its
abdomen
and can't help but wonder is its web
going to be as thick and strong as a
nylon rope
the spider gets even closer and you can
see its two massive jaws with terrifying
fangs
they must be positively perfect for
piercing prey
and that's a lot of peas this last
thought helps you snap
out of your stupor you frantically
change gear and
slowly back up trying not to provoke the
monster
as soon as the distance is safe enough
you somehow manage to make a u-turn and
hit the gas
your car tires are screeching your
heart's racing and your palms are sweaty
once back in the safety of your home you
start to calm down
but only a bit you dash to the living
room and switch on the tv
that's when you find out that it's not
some super elaborate nightmare you're
having
the big bug is the reality the first
creature
sneaked into the city during the night
experts scientists and authorities have
no
idea where they've come from and why
they're so giant
right now the whole city is paralyzed
you stare at cars abandoned right in the
middle of the road
and panicky people screaming and running
for shelter
looks like an alien invasion sci-fi
movie you think
but wait it is an invasion
the picture changes you see a colossal
spider climbing one of the few
skyscrapers in the business district
it reminds you of the time when your pet
spider escaped from its terrarium
and set off on a journey around the
house your sister's screams are still
ringing in your ears anyway that
accident made you curious
after searching the internet you finally
learned how come spiders could walk
upside down and on vertical surfaces the
secret of their sticky success
lies in thousands of tiny hairs at the
tips of their legs that's what helps the
creature from the tv
conquer the glass tower great
the power's out guess i'll just sit here
and play on my phone until they turn it
back on
yeah good luck with that a person can go
without
food for a couple of weeks water for a
few days
air for mere minutes but without
electricity
it's hard to say it all depends on where
you live
what survival skills you have and how
much you depend on the conveniences of
living on the grid
like the supermarkets that store and
sell your food which
they got thanks to factories that mass
produce it or even farmers that grow it
themselves
but let's see what would happen to
humanity if electricity
disappeared for say a year
let the games begin just not on your
smartphone
day one late afternoon
there's a bit of charge left on the
phone but your mobile data isn't working
nobody suspects that communication
towers have shut down
which means no calls not even
emergencies
for now all you know is the internet is
gone
how long do you think you'd make it let
me know down in the comments
you don't have any offline games either
your phone is nothing more than an
overpriced calculator now
guess i'll go for a walk before the sun
goes down
you head to your favorite cafe hey why
not grab a latte to pass the time
the barista cuts you off as soon as you
walk in the door
sorry all our machines are down from the
power outage
okay there goes that idea you walk
around aimlessly
still trying to catch a signal on your
phone you and everyone else standing
around looking at their screens in
confusion and frustration
you overhear a group of people talking
about a nasty crash on a busy
intersection
oh yeah traffic lights don't work now
and the cars will soon go along with
them
once the gas in their tanks run out it's
not like you can fill up at stations
they like the cafe need electricity too
on that note you decide you're better
off heading back home
evening first things first
a nice hot shower to wash this crazy
situation away
no tap the toilet doesn't flush either
yes public services like plumbing
heating and cooling go too
an outage like this is a lot more
serious than just losing your lights
especially when it's prolonged no tv
no playstation no nothing man why does
anything
fun have to be plugged in fine
i'll read a book you start lighting some
candles
you check outside the window to see if
other homes have gotten their
electricity back
it's the darkest you've ever seen the
city all you notice are dimly lit
windows everyone else is lighting
candles too
you look up at the sky stars
without street lights and lit up homes
and businesses the night sky looks
breathtaking well at least there's that
day 365.
light appears well that is if the
equipment at power stations is
operational after a year without
maintenance
it probably isn't once they fix things
up and electricity is back
it'll take at least 10 years to fully
restore the economy
infrastructure and production so in a
nutshell
we'd go back to living how we did before
we ever had electricity
but now i can only wonder
what happens if natural electricity
disappears
like lightning around 50 to 100
lightning bolts strike the planet
every single second our world needs
lightning
every time a bull lights up the sky it
puts off ozone
that word sound familiar yep there's a
layer of it in the atmosphere that
protects the earth from harmful
ultraviolet and cosmic radiation
new beginnings let's say some time has
passed
whatever that means now and electricity
returns
what will happen then boom big bang
the universe will be shocked into life
electrons will return to their repelling
atoms and molecules will work again but
it'll take
billions of years to get back to where
we are now
good thing this is all purely
hypothetical a little fantastical
thanks to my wandering mind and
certainly not possible
so here we are if you've ever complained
about there not being enough hours in
the day
well you'll only get a quarter of that
time now
our whole planet has decided to try and
relive its youth by
spinning faster we're now back to six
hours in a day
that's less than we need for a good
night's sleep and less than a typical
work shift
but most importantly how will we adjust
will we survive
six hours breaks down to two and a half
hours for sleep another two and a half
for work
and just one hour of chill time if there
is any
because we'll also have to shower eat
and clean
even the daily commute to work will be a
huge waste of our precious time
well that won't change unless you work
from home or live
right by your office and the workplace
is just a flight of stairs away
those will be the lucky ones the real
problems start with the two and a half
hours of sleep
we'll constantly feel tired and those
dark under eye circles would become our
species new trademark
there won't be enough time to rest or
reach rem sleep that usually happens
90 minutes after we've fallen asleep and
it is five
whole stages lasting 10 to 20 minutes
each
if the buzzing sound of our alarm clocks
interrupts that every day
we might lose the ability to dream and
two and a half hours to be productive
what a challenge we'll have to squeeze
our whole schedule into just 150 minutes
and work fast
but that too will be impossible without
enough sleep
we'll struggle to concentrate and
remember things
so overall work performance will likely
drop
i bet the coffee industry will thrive on
these new six hour days
we'll be reaching for cup after cup to
keep us productive on such little sleep
but we'll have to forget about lunch
breaks
there's no time if we could have one it
only lasts
8 minutes and on that note let's talk
meals
it won't be feasible to fit breakfast
lunch and dinner into our one hour chill
time
so we'll probably need to choose one of
the three
we'll eat a full meal every six hours
which might be difficult
but not impossible to get used to our
eating schedule will be
breakfast on monday lunch on tuesday and
dinner
on wednesday our weekends will only be
12 hours
so we'll have to make a tight schedule
will it be a football game
what about the movies or running errands
you can only choose one of the three
this time
entertainment will be a luxury maybe the
industry will collapse altogether
a movie will last as long as our sleep
time so
for this to work films will need to be
cut short
the same goes for sporting events and
shopping stores will be open for just
three to three and a half hours
maximum a day i'll bet they'll all be
packed
we'll work around 50 hours every month
sounds like a good deal at first
but remember our traditional 30-day
month is now
down to a little over seven days and
good luck remembering to change the date
so often
but that's a minor inconvenience
compared to the real problems we're
about to encounter
remember the emergency notification we
got earlier
in real time it'll take days to arrive
because we'll also have
issues with our satellites they orbit
our planet at the same speed to match
the earth's rotation
that way they can always be at the same
position if the earth
starts spinning faster satellite
communications will be interrupted
aviation banking weather forecasting tv
radio gps they'll all be thrown out of
whack unless we can readjust the
satellites
but even more serious problems are on
the way
since the beginning of our existence our
internal clock has been on a 24-hour
cycle
there will be a little less than three
hours of night time and more than three
hours of daytime
that's not enough sunlight for any
living being to survive on earth
for starters plants will struggle to
photosynthesize properly
some of them will flourish others will
grow but they'll be weak and yellow
and the rest will cease to exist that
will affect the whole food chain
remember learning about time distance
and speed back in school
here's a refresher speed equals distance
divided by
time let's take our time measure of zero
uh oh it's on the bottom of that
equation
can you still hear your teacher saying
you can never ever divide by zero
it's like if you have no pieces of gum
yet all your friends are asking for some
can't divide or distribute nothing fine
then let's move that zero to another
part of the equation
so that the universe doesn't implode
time is also distance
over speed so zero equals zero right
zero time zero speed zero distance
in other words if you stop time nothing
would move
yeah just like in the movies you can
walk around and touch stuff as if it's
frozen in mid-air
oh no my friend not even close when i
say nothing moves i mean
nothing nada yet zippo
there would be no light because photons
that is the most basic unit of light and
theoretically the fastest moving objects
in the entire universe
can't move either since the photons
aren't moving and going into your eyes
you wouldn't be able to see anything at
all and that's just the beginning
air wouldn't move either since it's also
made up of molecules
so say goodbye to breathing not that
your blood needs that
oxygen because it wouldn't be pumping
through your veins
with all molecules at a standstill
there'd be no heat either
so it's also about to get very cold
basically without time
you'd be blind unable to breathe and
frozen solid
sorry beyond earth the stopping of time
would also mean the basic forces of the
universe would also cease to be
you know like gravity also in einstein's
theory of relativity
space and time are interconnected and
interdependent
so without time space can exist if you
stipe time you stop everything as we
know it
no universe no nothing well that was a
letdown
bummer fine let's change the rules
because the reality of the hypothetic
is no fun in my book let's say i've been
gifted a sort of
supernatural pause button the world
around me just stops when i press it
but all that laws of physics stuff stays
the way it is
the only catch i can use it just once
one pause
one resume oh let's do this
oh wait wait wait wait wait i first need
to consider when i'm going to hit pause
right
i mean if i temporarily stop time during
rush hour on a holiday weekend
traffic is going to be impossible if i
do it in the middle of the night
nothing will be open and what fun is
that
hmm how about i don't know 10 30 on a
tuesday morning
just before lunch everyone's at work but
all my favorite stores are still open
sweet here we go and stop
whoa neato look at all the people frozen
in place
i stopped everything just as that guy
over there was tripping on the curb
that's gonna hurt when i start time back
up later
i'm getting distracted okay first things
first
i'm loading up on ice cream and video
games i mean
what good is this time stopping thing if
i'm not able to indulge my inner kid for
at least a week
or three hey yeah still me
i finally beat that 200 hour fantasy rpg
i never used to have time to play i'm
well rested
but i've gone up two pant sizes now what
hmm time to hit the gym how do i know
how long i've been on the treadmill in
this scenario
and never mind i'll just run laps then
hit the weights
oh man i'm gonna be so buff
when i unpause i may just have to
consider a new career as a professional
bodybuilder
hey maybe that cutie that lives in the
apartment across the hall will notice my
ripped bod
well if i'm taking advantage of this
time to get my body in shape
maybe i should work on my mind too
instead of just
watching reruns of my favorite sitcom at
the gym
i'll listen to a few audio books i'll
check out some documentaries while i'm
at it
hit me up with your recommendations on
what to watch and listen to
down in the comments i've got all the
time in the world
i'm starting to feel a little guilty
about taking all those video games
earlier
maybe i should return them to the store
before unpausing
yeah that'd be the right thing to do i
can't quite return the ice cream though
i'll leave some money on the counter
there now my conscience can rest assured
now hang on i'll just lay this mattress
here for when this poor guy finally hits
the ground
there you go buddy okay i've gotten in
shape
looking good feeling fantastic sworn off
any more borrowing
if you know what i mean now what i'd
love to visit the zoo but
i can't imagine the monkeys will be much
fun to watch when they're paused
so that's out i would watch a ball game
but it's still 10 30 am and everybody's
paused
wait that's right all the people are
frozen in time
i've been maneuvering around them all
this time and never even considered how
my boss would look better
if he finally got rid of that cheesy
mustache of his
let me pop into the barber shop and
borrow this electric razor here
i know i swore off borrowing this is the
last time
promise just my boss's mustache
and that's it oh and a clown wig
actually that one isn't just for my boss
clown wigs for everybody